2.12 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. In the event that any Certificates have been lost, stolen or destroyed, the Exchange Agent will issue in exchange therefor, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the holder thereof, the Merger Consideration payable in respect thereof pursuant to Section 2.7. Parent or the Exchange Agent may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the payment of such Merger Consideration, require the owners of such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificates to deliver a bond in such customary amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against Parent, the Surviving Corporation or the Exchange Agent with respect to the Certificates alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
2.13 Required Withholding. Each of the Exchange Agent, Parent, the Company, the Surviving Corporation and any other withholding agent will be entitled to deduct and withhold from any cash amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement, such amounts as are required to be deducted or withheld therefrom pursuant to any Tax laws. To the extent that such amounts are so deducted or withheld and paid over to the appropriate Governmental Authority, such amounts will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the Person to whom such amounts would otherwise have been paid.
2.14 Intended Tax Treatment. The parties hereto shall treat, for U.S. federal and applicable state and local income Tax purposes, (i) in the case of Company Stockholders who receive the Mixed Election Consideration in the Merger, the transfer of Company Common Stock to Parent by the Company Stockholders (pursuant to the Merger) in exchange for Parent Units and cash, pursuant to a plan with and taken together with the contribution of cash or other property to Parent by the holders of Parent Units, as a transaction described under Section 351(a) of the Code and (ii) in the case of Company Stockholders who receive only Cash Election Consideration in the Merger, the transfer pursuant to the Merger of Company Common Stock for cash, as a sale or exchange governed by Section 1001 of the Code (collectively, the “Intended Tax Treatment”). The parties hereto shall report such transfers for U.S. federal and applicable state and local income Tax purposes in accordance with the Intended Tax Treatment, and no party nor any of their Affiliates shall take any position for U.S. federal income Tax purposes (and applicable state and local Tax purposes) on any applicable Tax Return or in any applicable Tax contest or audit or in any communication (whether written or unwritten) with any applicable Governmental Authority inconsistent with the Intended Tax Treatment unless required to do so pursuant to a change in applicable law or by a “final determination” within the meaning of Section 1313 of the Code (or any similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. Law).
2.15 No Dividends or Distributions. No dividends or other distributions with respect to the capital stock of the Surviving Corporation with a record date on or after the Effective Time will be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Certificates or Uncertificated Shares.
-28-
2.16 Necessary Further Actions. If, at any time after the Effective Time, any further action is necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of this Agreement and to vest the Surviving Corporation with full right, title and possession to all assets, property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company or Merger Sub, then the directors and officers of the Company and Merger Sub will take all such lawful and necessary action.
ARTICLE III
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY
With respect to any Section of this Article III, except (a) as disclosed in the reports, statements and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC or furnished by the Company to the SEC, in each case, pursuant to the Exchange Act on or after January 1, 2022 and prior to the date hereof (other than any disclosures contained or referenced therein under the captions “Risk Factors,” “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and any other disclosures contained or referenced therein of information, factors or risks that are predictive, cautionary or forward-looking in nature) (the “Recent SEC Reports”) (it being (i) understood that any matter disclosed in any Recent SEC Report will be deemed to be disclosed in a section of the Company Disclosure Letter only to the extent that it is reasonably apparent on the face of such disclosure in such Recent SEC Report that it is applicable to such section of the Company Disclosure Letter; and (ii) acknowledged that nothing disclosed in the Recent SEC Reports will be deemed to modify or qualify the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.7 or Section 3.12(a)(ii)); or (b) subject to the terms of Section 9.12, as set forth in the disclosure letter delivered by the Company to the Buyer Parties on the date hereof (the “Company Disclosure Letter”), the Company hereby represents and warrants to the Buyer Parties as follows:
3.1 Organization; Good Standing. The Company (a) is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing pursuant to the DGCL; and (b) has the requisite corporate power and authority to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted and to own, lease or operate its properties and assets. The Company is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the character of its properties owned or leased or the nature of its activities make such qualification necessary (to the extent that the concept of “good standing” is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States), except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made available to Parent true, correct and complete copies of the Charter and the Bylaws of the Company, as amended (the “Bylaws”). The Company is not in violation of the Charter or the Bylaws.
3.2 Corporate Power; Enforceability. The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to (a) execute and deliver this Agreement; (b) perform its covenants and obligations hereunder; and (c) subject to receiving the Requisite Stockholder Approval, consummate the Merger. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, the performance by the Company of its covenants and obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the Merger have been duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and no additional corporate actions on the part of the Company are necessary to authorize (i) the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company; (ii) the performance by the Company of its covenants and obligations hereunder; or (iii) subject to the receipt of the Requisite Stockholder Approval, the consummation of the Merger. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Buyer Parties, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability (A) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting or relating to creditors’ rights generally; and (B) is subject to general principles of equity (collectively, the “Enforceability Limitations”).
-29-
3.3 Company Board Approval; Fairness Opinion; Anti-Takeover Laws.
(a) Independent Committee Approval. The Independent Committee has (i) determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and the Company Stockholders, and declared it advisable, to enter into this Agreement and consummate the Merger in accordance with the DGCL upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein; (ii) approved and adopted this Agreement; and (iii) resolved to recommend that the Company Board approve and adopt this Agreement.
(b) Company Board Approval. The Company Board has (i) determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and the Company Stockholders, and declared it advisable, to enter into this Agreement and consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Support Agreement, in accordance with the DGCL upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein; (ii) approved and adopted the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Support Agreement, in accordance with the DGCL upon the terms and conditions set forth herein; and (iii) resolved to recommend that the Company Stockholders adopt this Agreement in accordance with the DGCL (collectively, the “Company Board Recommendation”), which Company Board Recommendation has not been withdrawn, rescinded or modified in any way as of the date hereof.
(c) Fairness Opinion. The Company Board has received the written opinion of Greenhill & Co., LLC (the “Advisor”) to the effect that, as of the date of such opinion, and based upon and subject to the various limitations, qualifications, assumptions and other matters set forth therein, the Cash Election Consideration to be received by the Company Stockholders (other than the Company Stockholders who have entered into the Support Agreement or holders of Owned Company Shares or Dissenting Company Shares) pursuant to this Agreement is fair, from a financial point of view, to such holders (it being understood and agreed that such written opinion is for the benefit of the Company Board and may not be relied upon by the Buyer Parties). The Company shall, following the execution of this Agreement by all Parties, furnish an accurate, complete and confidential copy of said opinion letter to Parent solely for informational purposes.
(d) Anti-Takeover Laws. Assuming that the representations of the Buyer Parties set forth in Section 4.6 and Section 4.10 are true and correct, the Company Board has taken all necessary actions so that the restrictions on business combinations set forth in Section 203 of the DGCL and any other similar applicable “anti-takeover” law will not be applicable to the Merger, the Support Agreement or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Support Agreement.
3.4 Requisite Stockholder Approval. Except for the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Company Common Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class to adopt and approve this Agreement and the Merger (the “Requisite Stockholder Approval”), no other vote of the holders of any class or series of capital stock of the Company is necessary pursuant to applicable law, the Charter or the Bylaws to adopt and approve this Agreement and consummate the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Support Agreement. The delivery of written consent substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the “Written Consent”) to approve and adopt this Agreement and the Merger in accordance with Section 228 and Section 251(c) of the DCGL will satisfy the Requisite Stockholder Approval. Except for the Requisite Stockholder Approval and the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, no other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company are necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the Merger and any other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
-30-
3.5 Non-Contravention. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, the performance by the Company of its covenants and obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the Merger do not (a) violate or conflict with any provision of the Charter or the Bylaws; (b) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) pursuant to, result in the termination of, accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration pursuant to any Material Contract; (c) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 3.6 and, in the case of the consummation of the Merger, subject to obtaining the Written Consent and the adoption of this Agreement by the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, violate or conflict with any law or order applicable to the Company Group or by which any of its properties or assets are bound; or (d) result in the creation of any lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of the properties or assets of the Company Group, except in the case of each of clauses (b), (c) and (d) for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, terminations, accelerations or liens that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
3.6 Requisite Governmental Approvals. No consent, approval, order or authorization of, filing or registration with, or notification to (any of the foregoing, a “Consent”) any Governmental Authority is required on the part of the Company in connection with (a) the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company; (b) the performance by the Company of its covenants and obligations pursuant to this Agreement; or (c) the consummation of the Merger, except (i) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and such filings with Governmental Authorities to satisfy the applicable laws of states in which the Company Group is qualified to do business; (ii) such filings and approvals as may be required by any federal or state securities laws, including compliance with any applicable requirements of the Exchange Act; (iii) such filings as may be required under the rules and regulations of NYSE, (iv) compliance with any applicable requirements of the HSR Act and any other Antitrust and Foreign Investment Laws; and (v) such other Consents the failure of which to obtain or make would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
3.7 Company Capitalization.
(a) Capital Stock. The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of (i) 500,000,000 shares of Company Class A Common Stock, (ii) 75,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock and (iii) 10,000,000 shares of Company Preferred Stock. As of 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on May 2, 2025 (such time and date, the “Capitalization Date”), (A) 130,289,468 shares of Company Class A Common Stock were issued and outstanding; (B) 19,313,651 shares of Company Class B Common Stock were issued and outstanding; (C) no shares of Company Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding; and (D) no shares of Company Common Stock were held by the Company as treasury shares. All outstanding shares of Company Common Stock are validly issued, fully paid, nonassessable and free of any preemptive rights. From the Capitalization Date to the date hereof, the Company has not issued or granted any Company Securities other than pursuant to the exercise or settlement of Company Equity Awards granted prior to the date hereof.
(b) Stock Reservation. As of the Capitalization Date, the Company has reserved 4,682,006 shares of Company Common Stock for issuance pursuant to the Company Equity Plans. As of the Capitalization Date, there were outstanding the following (collectively, the “Company Equity Awards”): (i) Company RSAs with respect to 980,677 shares of Company Common Stock, (ii) Company PSAs with respect to 650,778 shares of Company Common Stock (assuming satisfaction of applicable performance criteria at target levels) and 1,301,556 shares of Company Common Stock (assuming satisfaction of applicable performance criteria at maximum levels), (iii) Company RSUs representing the right to receive up to 2,653,056 shares of Company Common Stock and (iv) 3,360,412 shares of Company Common Stock reserved and available for issuance under the Company ESPP. The Company has made available to Parent (or will make available to Parent within 30 Business Days following the date of this Agreement), a current, correct and complete list of outstanding Company Equity Awards, as of May 2, 2025, and with respect to each outstanding Company Equity Award, the name of the holder of such Company Equity Award, the award type and grant date of such Company Equity Award, and the vesting schedule of such Company Equity Award.
-31-
(c) Company Securities. Except as set forth in this Section 3.7, as of the Capitalization Date, there were (i) no outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in (including voting debt), the Company; (ii) no outstanding securities of the Company convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest (including voting debt) in, the Company; (iii) no outstanding options, warrants or other rights or binding arrangements to acquire from the Company, or that obligate the Company to issue, any capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest (including voting debt) in, the Company; (iv) no obligations of the Company to grant, extend or enter into any subscription, warrant, right, convertible, exchangeable or exercisable security, or other similar Contract relating to any capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest (including any voting debt) in, the Company; (v) no outstanding shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, contingent value rights, “phantom” stock or similar securities or rights that are derivative of, or provide economic benefits based, directly or indirectly, on the value or price of, any capital stock of, or other securities or ownership interests in, the Company (the items in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), collectively with the Company Common Stock, the “Company Securities”); (vi) no voting trusts, proxies or similar arrangements or understandings to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound with respect to the voting of any shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, the Company; (vii) except as provided in the Charter or the Bylaws, no obligations or binding commitments of any character restricting the transfer of any shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, the Company to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound; and (viii) no other obligations by the Company to make any payments based on the price or value of any Company Securities. The Company is not party to any Contract that obligates it to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any Company Securities. There are no accrued and unpaid dividends with respect to any outstanding shares of Company Common Stock. The Company does not have a stockholder rights plan in effect.
(d) Other Rights. The Company is not a party to any Contract relating to the voting of, requiring registration of, or granting any preemptive rights, anti-dilutive rights or rights of first refusal or other similar rights with respect to any Company Securities.
3.8 Subsidiaries.
(a) Subsidiaries. Section 3.8(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter contains a true, correct and complete list of the name, jurisdiction of organization, and schedule of stockholders or equity holders (other than any member of the Company Group) of each Subsidiary of the Company. Each Subsidiary of the Company (i) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing pursuant to the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (to the extent that the concept of “good standing” is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States); and (ii) has the requisite corporate (or similar) power and authority to carry on its business as it is presently being conducted and to own, lease or operate its properties and assets, except where the failure to be so organized, validly existing and in good standing would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Each Subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the character of its properties owned or leased or the nature of its activities make such qualification necessary (to the extent that the concept of “good standing” is applicable in the case of any jurisdiction outside the United States), except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made available to Parent true, correct and complete copies of the certificates of incorporation, bylaws and other similar organizational documents of each “significant subsidiary” (as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC) of the Company, each as amended as of the date hereof. No Subsidiary of the Company is in violation of its charter, bylaws or other similar organizational documents, except for such violations that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
-32-
(b) Capital Stock of Subsidiaries. All of the outstanding capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, each Subsidiary of the Company (i) has been duly authorized, validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable; and (ii) to the extent owned directly or indirectly by the Company, is owned free and clear of all liens (other than Permitted Liens) and any other restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such capital stock or other equity or voting interest) that would prevent such Subsidiary from conducting its business as of the Effective Time in substantially the same manner that such business is conducted on the date hereof.
(c) Other Securities of Subsidiaries. There are no outstanding (i) securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, any Subsidiary of the Company; (ii) options, warrants or other rights or arrangements obligating the Company Group to acquire from any Subsidiary of the Company, or that obligate any Subsidiary of the Company to issue, any capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest in, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for, shares of capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest (including any voting debt) in, any Subsidiary of the Company; or (iii) obligations of any Subsidiary of the Company to grant, extend or enter into any subscription, warrant, right, convertible or exchangeable security, or other similar Contract relating to any capital stock of, or other equity or voting interest (including any voting debt) in, such Subsidiary to any Person other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries.
(d) Other Investments. Other than equity securities held in the ordinary course of business for cash management purposes, the Company does not own or hold the right to acquire any equity securities, ownership interests or voting interests (including voting debt) of, or securities exchangeable or exercisable therefor, or investments in, any other Person.
3.9 Company SEC Reports. Since January 1, 2022, the Company has filed all forms, reports and documents with the SEC that have been required to be filed by it pursuant to applicable laws prior to the date hereof (the “Company SEC Reports”). Each Company SEC Report complied, as of its filing date, in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, each as in effect on the date that such Company SEC Report was filed. True, correct and complete copies of all Company SEC Reports are publicly available in the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval database of the SEC (“EDGAR”). As of its filing date (or, if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date hereof, on the date of such amended or superseded filing), each Company SEC Report did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. No Subsidiary of the Company is required to file any forms, reports or documents with the SEC.
3.10 Company Financial Statements; Internal Controls; Indebtedness.
(a) Company Financial Statements. The consolidated financial statements (including any related notes and schedules) of the Company Group filed with the Company SEC Reports (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto or as otherwise permitted by Form 10-Q with respect to any financial statements filed on Form 10-Q); and (ii) fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company Group as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of any financial statements filed on Form 10-Q, to normal year-end adjustments). Except as have been described in the Company SEC Reports, there are no unconsolidated Subsidiaries of the Company or any off-balance sheet arrangements of the type required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC.
-33-
(b) Disclosure Controls and Procedures. The Company has established and maintains “disclosure controls and procedures” and “internal control over financial reporting” (in each case as defined pursuant to Rule 13a-15 and Rule 15d-15 promulgated under the Exchange Act). The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are reasonably designed to ensure that all (i) material information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports and other documents that it files or furnishes pursuant to the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC; and (ii) such material information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and to make the certifications required pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company’s management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, and such assessment concluded that such system was effective. Since January 1, 2022, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have made all certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Neither the Company nor its principal executive officer or principal financial officer has received notice from any Governmental Authority challenging or questioning the accuracy, completeness, form or manner of filing of such certifications.
(c) Internal Controls. The Company has established and maintains a system of internal accounting controls that are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, including policies and procedures that (i) require the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company Group; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP and that receipts and expenditures of the Company Group are being made only in accordance with appropriate authorizations of the Company’s management and the Company Board; and (iii) provide assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the assets of the Company Group. Neither the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has identified or been made aware of (A) any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control over financial reporting utilized by the Company Group that has not been subsequently remediated; or (B) any fraud that involves the Company’s management or other employees who have a role in the preparation of financial statements or the internal control over financial reporting utilized by the Company Group. As of the date hereof, there are no outstanding or unresolved comments in comment letters received from the SEC with respect to the Company SEC Reports.
3.11 No Undisclosed Liabilities. The Company Group has no liabilities of a nature required to be reflected or reserved against on a balance sheet (or the notes thereto) prepared in accordance with GAAP, other than liabilities (a) reflected or otherwise reserved against in the Audited Company Balance Sheet or in the consolidated financial statements of the Company Group (including the notes thereto) included in the Company SEC Reports filed prior to the date hereof; (b) arising pursuant to this Agreement or incurred in connection with the Merger; (c) incurred in the ordinary course of business on or after January 1, 2025; or (d) that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
3.12 Absence of Certain Changes.
(a) Absence of Company Material Adverse Effect. Since January 1, 2025 through the date of this Agreement, (i) the business of the Company Group has been conducted, in all material respects, in the ordinary course of business and (ii) there has not occurred a Company Material Adverse Effect.
(b) Forbearance. Since January 1, 2025 through the date hereof, the Company has not taken any action that would be prohibited by Section 5.2 (other than subsections 5.2(c), 5.2(l), 5.2(p), 5.2(q) and 5.2(y) (to the extent related to the foregoing subsections)), if taken or proposed to be taken after the date hereof.
-34-
3.13 Material Contracts.
(a) List of Material Contracts. Section 3.13(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter contains a true, correct and complete list of all Material Contracts to or by which the Company Group is a party or is bound as of the date hereof (other than any Employee Plans and Material Contracts contemplated by clause (i) of the definition of Material Contract and any Material Contracts listed in Section 3.18(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter), and a true, correct and complete copy of each Material Contract has been made available to Parent.
(b) Validity. Each Material Contract is valid and binding on the Company or each such Subsidiary of the Company party thereto and is in full force and effect, and none of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries party thereto or, to the Knowledge of the Company, any other party thereto is in breach of or default pursuant to any such Material Contract, except in each case as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. No event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a breach or default pursuant to any Material Contract by the Company Group, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, any other party thereto, except for such breaches and defaults that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
(c) Notices from Material Relationships. To the Knowledge of the Company, since the date of the Audited Company Balance Sheet to the date hereof, the Company has not received any notice in writing from or on behalf of any Material Relationship indicating that such Material Relationship (i) intends to terminate, not renew or otherwise materially and adversely modify any Material Contract with such Material Relationship or (ii) has ceased, or will cease, to supply or make available all or substantially all of the products, equipment, goods or services currently supplied to the Company Group by such Material Relationship.
3.14 Real Property.
(a) Owned Real Property. Section 3.14(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth the address (if any) of each Owned Real Property. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, with respect to each Owned Real Property: (i) the Company or Subsidiary (as the case may be) has good and marketable fee simple title to all of its Owned Real Property and tangible assets, free and clear of all liens, except for Permitted Liens; (ii) other than the right of Parent pursuant to this Agreement, there are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase such Owned Real Property or any portion thereof or interest therein; (iii) there is no pending, or to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing condemnation, eminent domain or similar proceedings affecting any of the Owned Real Property; and (iv) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has leased or otherwise granted to any Person the right to use or occupy such Owned Real Property or any portion thereof. For purposes hereof, “Owned Real Property” means all land, together with all buildings, structures, improvements, and fixtures located thereon, owned by the Company or any Subsidiary thereof.
(b) Leased Real Property. Section 3.14(b) of the Company Disclosure Letter contains a true, correct and complete list, as of the date hereof, of all of the existing leases, subleases, licenses or other agreements pursuant to which the Company Group uses or occupies, or has the right to use or occupy, now or in the future, any real property which require the payment of annual base rent in excess of $5,000,000 (such property, the “Leased Real Property,” and each such lease, sublease, license or other agreement, a “Lease,” and together with the Owned Real Property, the “Real Property”). The Company has made available to Parent true, correct and complete (in all material respects) copies of all Leases (including all material modifications, amendments and supplements thereto). With respect to each Lease and except as would not be material to the
-35-
business of the Company Group, taken as a whole, (i) the Company or one of its Subsidiaries has valid leasehold or subleasehold estates or license, as applicable, in the Leased Real Property, free and clear of all liens (other than Permitted Liens), and (ii) neither the Company Group, nor to the Knowledge of the Company, any other party to a Lease is in material breach of or default pursuant to such Lease. The Real Property constitutes all of the material real property used in connection with the business of the Company.
(c) Subleases. Section 3.14(c) of the Company Disclosure Letter contains a true, correct and complete list of all of the existing material subleases, licenses or similar agreements which require the payment of annual base rent in excess of $5,000,000 (including all amendments, extensions, renewals, guaranties and other agreements with respect thereto, each, a “Sublease”) granting to any Person, other than the Company Group, any right to use or occupy, now or in the future, the Leased Real Property. With respect to each of the Subleases, (i) neither the Company Group, nor to the Knowledge of the Company, any other party to a Sublease is in material breach of or default pursuant to such Sublease that would result in material liability to the Company Group, taken as a whole; and (ii) the other party to such Sublease is not an Affiliate of the Company Group. Except as set forth in Section 3.14(c) of the Company Disclosure Letter, neither the Company nor its Subsidiaries has subleased, licensed or otherwise granted any Person the right to use or occupy any of the Leased Real Property.
3.15 Environmental Matters. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, no member of the Company Group (a) has, in the previous five years, received any notice or report alleging that the Company or any Subsidiary has violated, or has any liability under, any Environmental Law; (b) has transported, produced, processed, manufactured, distributed, sold, generated, used, treated, handled, stored, released or disposed of, or arranged for or permitted the disposal of, or exposed any Person to, any Hazardous Substances in violation of, or in a manner giving rise to liability under, any Environmental Law; (c) is a party to or is the subject of any pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened Legal Proceeding (i) alleging the noncompliance by the Company Group with any Environmental Law; or (ii) seeking to impose any liability, including responsibility for any investigation, cleanup, removal or remediation, pursuant to any Environmental Law; (d) has, in the previous five years, failed or is failing to comply with any applicable Environmental Law, which compliance includes possession and maintenance of all Permits required under applicable Environmental Laws; or (e) owns or operates, or has owned or operated, any property or facility contaminated by any Hazardous Substance, so as to result in liability to the Company or any Subsidiary under Environmental Law.
3.16 Intellectual Property.
(a) Registered Company Intellectual Property. Section 3.16(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete list of all registered or applied-for Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and domain name registrations, in each case, owned by a member of the Company Group that is the subject of an application, filing or registration by any Governmental Authority or domain name registrar (collectively, the “Registered Company Intellectual Property”). The material items identified on Section 3.16(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter are subsisting with the Governmental Authorities or the applicable internet domain name registrar with which such items are registered or pending and, to the Knowledge of the Company, (i) have not been cancelled or abandoned, and (ii) are valid and enforceable.
(b) Exclusive Ownership and Valid License. Except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole, the Company or another member of the Company Group (i) exclusively owns the Company Intellectual Property free and clear of all liens (other than Permitted Liens) and (ii) has a valid license or otherwise has sufficient rights to use all other Intellectual Property used in the operation of their businesses as currently conducted.
-36-
(c) Proceedings. Within the last three years, there have been no material Legal Proceedings pending or threatened in writing against any member of the Company Group challenging the ownership, validity or enforceability of any material Registered Company Intellectual Property (including any opposition or cancellation proceedings with respect to material Trademarks included in the Registered Intellectual Property). No registration obtained by the Company Group for any of the material Trademarks included in the Registered Company Intellectual Property has been cancelled, abandoned or not renewed except where the Company Group has, in its reasonable business judgment, decided to permit the cancellation, abandonment or non-renewal of such registration.
(d) No Infringement. Except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole, (i) the Company Group, the Company Group’s products, and the operation of the business of the Company Group, have not infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated any Intellectual Property of any Person (provided the foregoing representation is to the Knowledge of the Company with respect to Patents), (ii) to the Knowledge of the Company, no Person has infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated any Company Intellectual Property, and (iii) no Legal Proceeding alleging any of the foregoing in this Section 3.16(d) is pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing against any member of the Company Group.
(e) No Notice of Infringement. Since January 1, 2022, the Company Group has not received written notice from any third Person, or been involved in any Legal Proceeding, alleging that the operation of the business of the Company Group or any of the Company Group’s products infringe, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the Intellectual Property of any third Person, except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole.
(f) Precautions and Assignment of Exclusive Ownership. Each member of the Company Group has taken commercially reasonable precautions to maintain and protect its Company Intellectual Property, including the confidentiality of its material Trade Secrets or material confidential information, and, to the Knowledge of the Company, there has been no unauthorized uses or disclosures of any such material Trade Secrets or material confidential information. Each employee and independent contractor of any member of the Company Group who has been involved in the development of material Intellectual Property for the Company Group that would not otherwise be owned by a member of the Company Group as a matter of law under a work-for-hire or similar doctrine has assigned to a member of the Company Group ownership of such Intellectual Property.
(g) Patents. Except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole: (i) all issuance, renewal, maintenance and other payments and all documents or other materials required to be paid or filed with the applicable Intellectual Property office or register to maintain any material Patents or Patent applications included in the Company Intellectual Property have been timely paid in full or filed in a timely manner, as applicable; (ii) each member of the Company Group has complied with all applicable Laws, including any duties of candor to applicable patent offices, in connection with the filing, prosecution and maintenance of the Patents and, to the extent applicable, Patent applications included in the Company Intellectual Property; and (iii) each of the Patents and Patent applications included in the Company Intellectual Property properly identifies each inventor of the claims thereof if required by the applicable Law of the jurisdiction in which such Patent or Patent application is issued or is pending.
(h) AI Technology. Except as would not reasonably be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole, to the extent that the Company Group has engaged in the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology (collectively, “AI Technology”), no member of the Company Group has been subject to any Legal Proceeding (pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing) related to its creation, training, use, promotion, advertisement, testing or provision of AI Technology.
-37-
(i) Business Systems. The Company Group owns, leases, licenses, or otherwise has the legal right to use all Business Systems, and such Business Systems operate and perform in all material respects as is necessary for the business of the Company Group as currently conducted. The Company Group has implemented since January 1, 2022, and maintains, commercially reasonable security, disaster recovery, and business continuity plans, procedures, and facilities designed to provide substantially continuous monitoring and alerting of material operational problems or issues with the Business Systems in the possession or operational control of the Company Group, except where the failure to implement and maintain such plans, procedures, or facilities would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole. In the last two (2) years, with respect to any of the Business Systems, there has not been any (A) unauthorized access or use; or (B) failure that has not been remedied or replaced, except, in the case of the foregoing (A) or (B), as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole. The Business Systems provide the operations of the Company Group, including the internet websites and mobile applications provided to the Company’s customers, with sufficient redundancy and speed to meet industry standards relating to high availability and the Company has no reason to believe that the Business Systems will not operate or will not continue to be accessible to end users on a high availability basis after the Closing Date.
(j) Data Security and Privacy. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries (i) is, and since January 1, 2022 has been, in material compliance with all Data Security Requirements; and (ii) since January 1, 2022, has taken commercially reasonable steps to protect (A) the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and security of its Business Systems that are involved in the Processing of Personally Identifiable Information, in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted; and (B) Personally Identifiable Information Processed by the Company or such Subsidiary or on their behalf from unauthorized use, access, disclosure, theft, and modification, except in each case as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole. As of the date hereof, (i) there are no pending complaints, investigations, inquiries, notices, enforcement proceedings, or actions by or before any Governmental Authority and (ii) since January 1, 2022, no fines or other penalties have been imposed on or written claims for compensation have been received by the Company or any Subsidiary, relating to any Specified Data Breach, in each case except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries have not since January 1, 2022, (1) experienced any Specified Data Breaches; or (2) been involved in any Legal Proceedings related to or alleging any violation of any Data Security Requirements by the Company Group or any Specified Data Breaches, in each case except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as whole.
3.17 Tax Matters.
(a) Tax Returns. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, each member of the Company Group has (i) timely filed (taking into account valid extensions) all United States federal, state, local and non-United States returns, estimates, information statements and reports (including amendments thereto) relating to any and all Taxes (“Tax Returns”) required to be filed by any of them with the appropriate Governmental Authority (taking into account any valid extensions with respect thereto) and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and correct; and (ii) paid, or has adequately reserved on the face of the Audited Company Balance Sheet (in accordance with GAAP) for the payment of, all Taxes that are due and payable;
(b) Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, none of the members of the Company Group has executed any waiver, except in connection with any ongoing Tax examination, of any statute of limitations on, or extended the period for the assessment or collection of, any material Tax, in each case that has not since expired;
-38-
(c) Taxes Paid. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, each member of the Company Group has timely paid or withheld with respect to their employees and other third Persons (and paid over any amounts withheld to the appropriate Tax authority) all United States federal and state income taxes, Federal Insurance Contribution Act, Federal Unemployment Tax Act and other similar Taxes required to be paid or withheld;
(d) No Audits. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect: (i) no audits or other examinations with respect to Taxes of the Company Group are presently in progress or have been asserted or proposed in writing, (ii) no Governmental Authority has given written notice of any intention to assert any deficiency or claim for additional Taxes against the Company Group, (iii) all deficiencies for Taxes asserted or assessed against the Company Group have been fully and timely paid, settled or properly reflected on the Audited Company Balance Sheet; and (iv) in the past three years, none of the members of the Company Group has received a written claim by a Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where the Company Group does not file Tax Returns that the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, is or may be subject to tax in that jurisdiction;
(e) No Material Liens. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, there are no material pledges, liens, charges, mortgages, encumbrances or security interests of any kind or nature whatsoever for Taxes on the property or assets of any member of the Company Group, except for Permitted Liens;
(f) Spin-offs. In the past two years, none of the members of the Company Group has constituted either a “distributing corporation” or a “controlled corporation” (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock intended to qualify for tax-free treatment, in whole or in part, pursuant to Section 355 or Section 361(a) of the Code;
(g) No Listed Transaction. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, none of the members of the Company Group has engaged in a “listed transaction” as set forth in Treasury Regulations Section 1.6011-4(b)(2);
(h) Tax Agreements. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, none of the members of the Company Group (i) is a party to or bound by, or currently has any obligation pursuant to, any Tax sharing, allocation or indemnification agreement or any similar agreement or arrangement, other than any such agreement or obligation solely between and among members of the Company Group, or the primary purpose of which is unrelated to Taxes; or (ii) has any material liability for the Taxes of any Person other than the Company Group pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or non-United States law) as a transferee or successor;
(i) No Rulings or Agreements. No private letter rulings, technical advance memoranda, closing agreement or similar agreements or rulings have been entered into or issued by any Governmental Authority with respect to any member of the Company Group that are binding on any such member in respect of any taxable year for which the statute of limitations has not yet expired;
(j) Foreign Taxation. In the past five years, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in a trade or business, had a permanent establishment (within the meaning of an applicable Tax treaty or convention between the United States and such foreign country), or otherwise been subject to material taxation in any country other than the country of its formation; and
-39-
(k) Intended Tax Treatment. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is aware of the existence of any fact or circumstance, or has taken or agreed to take any action, or knowingly failed to take any action, which fact or circumstance or act or failure to act could reasonably be expected to prevent or impede the Merger from qualifying for the Intended Tax Treatment.
3.18 Employee Plans.
(a) Employee Plans. Section 3.18(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth a current, correct and complete list, as of the date hereof, of all material Employee Plans. For purposes of this Agreement, “Employee Plan” shall mean (collectively) (i) all “employee benefit plans” (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), whether or not subject to ERISA; and (ii) all other material employment, natural person consultant or other service, bonus, stock option, stock purchase or other equity-based, benefit, incentive compensation, profit sharing, savings, retirement, disability, insurance, vacation, deferred compensation, severance, termination, retention, change in control compensation and other similar material fringe, welfare or other employee benefit plans, programs, agreements, contracts, policies or binding arrangements (whether or not in writing) (x) sponsored, maintained or contributed to (or required to be contributed to) by any member of the Company Group; or (y) otherwise with respect to which the Company Group has any material liability, contingent or otherwise, in each case, other than any plan or program maintained by a Governmental Authority to which the Company or its Subsidiaries contribute pursuant to applicable law. With respect to each material Employee Plan, to the extent applicable, the Company has made available to Parent current, correct and complete copies of (A) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 required to have been filed with the IRS for each Employee Plan, including all schedules thereto; (B) the most recent determination or opinion letter, if any, from the IRS for any Employee Plan that is intended to qualify pursuant to Section 401(a) of the Code; (C) the plan documents and summary plan descriptions; (D) any related trust agreements, insurance contracts, insurance policies or other Contracts of any funding arrangements; and (E) any notices to or from the IRS or any office or representative of the United States Department of Labor or any similar Governmental Authority relating to any material unresolved compliance issues in respect of any such Employee Plan during the past two years.
(b) Absence of Certain Plans. Neither the Company nor any other trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that would be treated as a single employer with the Company Group pursuant to Section 414 of the Code (an “ERISA Affiliate”) has, in the last six years, maintained, sponsored or contributed to or currently maintains, sponsors or participates in, or contributes to, or has any material liability or obligation with respect to, (i) a “multiemployer plan” (as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA); (ii) a “multiple employer plan” (as defined in Section 4063 or Section 4064 of ERISA); (iii) a “defined benefit plan” (as defined in Section 3(35) of ERISA) or a plan that otherwise is or was subject to Section 302 of Title I of ERISA, Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA; or (iv) a “multiple employer welfare arrangement” (within the meaning of Section 210 of ERISA or Section 413(c) of the Code).
(c) Compliance. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect: (i) each Employee Plan has been established, maintained, funded, operated and administered in accordance with its terms and with all applicable law, including the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and any applicable regulatory guidance issued by any Governmental Authority; (ii) all required contributions, premiums and other payments relating to the Employee Plans have been timely and accurately made, and no Employee Plan has any unfunded liabilities that have not been fully accrued; (iii) each Employee Plan that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination or opinion letter from the IRS as to its qualified status, and nothing has occurred that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect such Employee Plan’s qualified status; and (iv) no member of the Company Group has incurred, whether or not assessed, any Tax or penalty under Sections 4980B, 4980D, 4980H, 6721 or 6722 of the Code.
-40-
(d) Employee Plan Legal Proceedings. As of the date hereof, except as would not be material to the business of the Company Group, taken as a whole, there are no Legal Proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened on behalf of or against any Employee Plan, the assets of any trust pursuant to any Employee Plan, or the plan sponsor, plan administrator or any fiduciary of any Employee Plan with respect to the administration or operation of such plans, other than routine claims for benefits that have been or are being handled through an administrative claims procedure.
(e) No Prohibited Transactions. None of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, any of their respective directors, officers, employees or agents has, with respect to any Employee Plan, engaged in or been a party to any breach of fiduciary duty or non-exempt “prohibited transaction” (as defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) that could reasonably be expected to result in the imposition of a material penalty assessed pursuant to Section 502(i) of ERISA or a material Tax imposed by Section 4975 of the Code, in each case applicable to the Company Group or any Employee Plan.
(f) No Retirement Welfare Benefit Plan. No Employee Plan provides post-termination or retiree life insurance, health or other welfare benefits to any person, except as may be required by Section 4980B of the Code or any similar law for which the covered Person pays the full cost of coverage.
(g) No Additional Rights. Except as required by the terms of this Agreement, none of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the Merger will, either alone or in conjunction with any other event (whether contingent or otherwise), (i) result in, or accelerate the time of payment, funding or vesting of, any payment (including severance, change in control, stay or retention bonus or otherwise) or benefits becoming due under any Employee Plan; (ii) increase any compensation or benefits otherwise payable under any Employee Plan; (iii) result in the acceleration of the time of payment or vesting of any compensation or benefits under any Employee Plan; or (iv) result in the breach or violation of, any Employee Plan. None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the Merger will, either alone or in conjunction with any other event (whether contingent or otherwise), result in the funding of any grantor, “rabbi” or similar trust pursuant to any Employee Plan.
(h) Section 280G. No payment or benefit payable in connection with the consummation of the Merger (either alone or in connection with any other event) will constitute a parachute payment within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and the Company Group has no obligation to gross-up or indemnify any individual with respect to any Tax under Section 4999 of the Code.
(i) Section 409A. Each Employee Plan has been maintained, in form and operation, in all material respects in compliance with Section 409A of the Code or an exemption therefrom, and the Company Group has no obligation to gross-up or indemnify any individual with respect to any Tax under Section 409A of the Code.
3.19 Labor Matters.
(a) Union Activities. Except as required by applicable law, the Company Group is not a party to or bound by any collective bargaining agreement, labor union contract or trade union agreement or other Contract with any labor union, works council or other labor organization (each, a “Collective Bargaining Agreement”), and no employees of the Company Group are represented by a labor union, works council or other labor organization with respect to their employment with the Company Group. To the Knowledge of the Company, there are no pending or threatened material activities or proceedings of any labor union, works council, or other labor organization or trade union or group of employees to organize any employees of the Company Group with regard to their employment with the Company Group, and no such material activities or
-41-
proceedings have occurred within the past two years. No Collective Bargaining Agreement is being negotiated by the Company Group. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, there is no strike, lockout, organized slowdown, organized work stoppage, or other material labor dispute against the Company Group pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company Group, and no such labor disputes have occurred within the past two years.
(b) Wage and Hour and Legal Compliance. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company Group is in compliance, and has complied, with applicable laws and orders with respect to labor and employment (including, but not limited to, applicable laws, statutes, acts, codes, orders, rules and regulations regarding wage and hour, worker classification, immigration, harassment, whistleblowing, disability rights or benefits, equal opportunity, plant closures and layoffs (including the WARN Act), employee trainings and notices, workers’ compensation, labor relations, employee leave issues, affirmative action, unemployment insurance, discrimination or retaliation in employment, employee health and safety, and collective bargaining).
(c) Withholding. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company Group has withheld all amounts required by applicable law to be withheld from the wages, salaries and other payments to current and former employees and other service providers of the Company Group, and is not liable for any arrears of wages, salaries or other payments, including under Contract, Company Group policy or law, or any Taxes or any penalty for failure to comply with any of the foregoing, and (ii) no member of the Company Group is liable for any material payment to any trust or other fund or to any Governmental Authority with respect to unemployment compensation benefits, social security or other benefits for employees (other than routine payments to be made in the ordinary course of business).
(d) Sexual Harassment. Since January 1, 2024, except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, there have been no Legal Proceedings related to any allegations of sexual or racial harassment, discrimination, retaliation or other types of misconduct by any employee of the Company Group.
3.20 Permits. Except as would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company Group holds, to the extent legally required, all permits, licenses, variances, clearances, consents, commissions, franchises, exemptions, orders and approvals from Governmental Authorities that are required for the operation of the business and/or Real Property of the Company Group as currently conducted (“Permits”). The Company Group complies with the terms of all Permits, and no suspension or cancellation of any of the Permits is pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened, except for such noncompliance, suspensions or cancellations that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
3.21 Compliance with Laws. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws and orders that are applicable to the Company Group or to the conduct of the business or operations of the Company Group, except for noncompliance that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect. No representation or warranty is made in this Section 3.21 with respect to (a) compliance with the Exchange Act, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.9 and Section 3.10; (b) compliance with Environmental Law, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.15; (c) compliance with applicable Tax laws, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.17, Section 3.18 and Section 3.19(c); (d) compliance with ERISA and other applicable laws relating to employee benefits, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.18; (e) compliance with labor law matters, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.19; or (f) compliance with trade control laws and anti-corruption laws, which is exclusively addressed by Section 3.26.
-42-
3.22 Legal Proceedings; Orders.
(a) No Legal Proceedings. There are no material Legal Proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company Group or, as of the date hereof, against any present or former officer or director of the Company Group in such individual’s capacity as such.
(b) No Orders. As of the date hereof, none of the Company Group is subject to any material order of any kind or nature that would prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Merger or the ability of the Company to perform in all material respects its covenants and obligations pursuant to this Agreement.
3.23 Insurance. As of the date hereof, the Company Group has all material policies of insurance covering the Company Group and any of its employees, properties or assets, including policies of property, fire, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’ liability and other casualty and liability insurance, that is customarily carried by Persons conducting business similar to that of the Company Group. As of the date hereof, all such insurance policies are in full force and effect, no notice of cancellation has been received and there is no existing default or event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default by any insured thereunder, except for such defaults that would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
3.24 Related Person Transactions. Except for the Support Agreement and any indemnification, compensation or other employment arrangements in the ordinary course of business, there are no Contracts, transactions, arrangements or understandings between the Company Group, on the one hand, and any Affiliate (including any director or officer) thereof, but not including any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand, that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC in the Company’s Form 10-K or proxy statement pertaining to an annual meeting of stockholders.
3.25 Brokers. Except for the Advisor, there is no financial advisor, investment banker, broker, finder, agent or other Person that has been retained by or is authorized to act on behalf of the Company Group or the Company Board, who is entitled to any financial advisor’s, investment banking, brokerage, finder’s or other non-hours based fee or commission in connection with the Merger. The Company has made available to Parent copies of all agreements under which such fee, commission, or other like payment is payable and all indemnification and other agreements under which any such fee or commission is payable.
3.26 Sanctions; Trade Controls; FCPA.
(a) The Company Group has conducted its transactions and dealings over the past five years in material compliance with all applicable United States anti-money laundering laws, Sanctions, and Trade Controls.
(b) The Company and each of its Subsidiaries has implemented and maintains in effect written policies and procedures and internal controls reasonably designed to prevent, deter and detect violations of applicable Sanctions, Trade Controls and the FCPA and all other applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, statutes, regulations, and orders (collectively, “Anti-Corruption Laws”). Over the past five years, the Company Group has not made any voluntary or involuntary disclosure, conducted any internal investigation, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, received any written notice of facts, allegations or circumstances, in each case, relating to an actual or potential violation of Sanctions, Trade Controls, or Anti-Corruption Laws.
(c) As of the date hereof, there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened Legal Proceedings against the Company Group alleging a violation of any applicable Sanctions, Trade Controls or Anti-Corruption Laws that are applicable to the Company Group. Without limiting the foregoing, during the last five years, the Company Group has been and is in compliance with applicable Sanctions, Trade Controls and Anti-Corruption Laws that are applicable to the Company Group.
-43-
(d) No material licenses or approvals pursuant to the Sanctions or Trade Controls are necessary for the transfer of any export licenses or other export approvals to Parent or the Surviving Corporation in connection with the consummation of the Merger.
(e) Neither the Company Group nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any officer, director, agent, employee or other Person acting on its behalf, has, directly or indirectly, (i) taken any action that would cause them to be in violation of any provision of Anti-Corruption Laws; (ii) used any corporate funds for unlawful contributions, gifts, entertainment or other unlawful expenses relating to political activity; (iii) made, offered or authorized any unlawful payment, or other thing of value, to foreign or domestic government officials or employees; or (iv) made, offered or authorized any unlawful bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other similar unlawful payment in violation of Anti-Corruption Laws.
(f) Neither the Company Group nor any of its officers, directors or employees, nor to the Knowledge of the Company, any agent or other third party representative acting on behalf of the Company Group, is currently, or has been in the past five years: (i) a Sanctioned Person, or (ii) engaging in any dealings or transactions with, on behalf of, or for the benefit of any Sanctioned Person or in any Sanctioned Country, in each case that would result in a material violation of Sanctions.
3.27 Disclosure Documents. None of the information supplied or to be supplied by the Company specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (a) the Information Statement will, at the time such document is first filed with the SEC, at any time it is amended or supplemented or at the time it is first published, sent or given to the holders of Company Common Stock and (b) the Registration Statement will, at the time such document is first filed with the SEC or at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances in which they are being made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, no representation or warranty is made by the Company with respect to any information or statement made or incorporated by reference in the Information Statement or Registration Statement that was not supplied by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company for use therein.
3.28 Exclusivity of Representations and Warranties.
(a) No Other Representations and Warranties. The Company, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, acknowledges and agrees that, except for the representations and warranties expressly set forth in Article IV, the Equity Commitment Letter and the Guaranty:
(b) neither the Buyer Parties nor any of their Subsidiaries (or any other Person) makes, or has made, any representation or warranty relating to the Buyer Parties, its Subsidiaries or any of their businesses, operations or otherwise in connection with this Agreement or the Merger;
(i) no Person has been authorized by the Buyer Parties or any of its Affiliates or Representatives to make any representation or warranty relating to the Buyer Parties or any of its businesses or operations or otherwise in connection with this Agreement or the Merger, and if made, such representation or warranty must not be relied upon by the Company Group or any of their respective Affiliates or Representatives as having been authorized by the Buyer Parties or any of its Affiliates or Representatives (or any other Person); and
-44-
(ii) the representations and warranties made by the Buyer Parties in this Agreement are in lieu of and are exclusive of all other representations and warranties, including any express or implied or as to merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, and the Buyer Parties hereby disclaim any other or implied representations or warranties, notwithstanding the delivery or disclosure to the Company Group or any of their respective Affiliates or Representatives of any documentation or other information (including any financial information, supplemental data or financial projections or other forward-looking statements).
(c) No Reliance. The Company, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, acknowledges and agrees that, except for the representations and warranties expressly set forth in Article IV, the Equity Commitment Letter and the Guaranty, it is not acting (including, as applicable, by entering into this Agreement or consummating the Merger) in reliance on:
(i) any representation or warranty, express or implied;
(ii) any estimate, projection, prediction, data, financial information, memorandum, presentation or other materials or information provided or addressed to the Buyer Parties or any of their respective Affiliates or Representatives, including any materials or information made available in the electronic data room hosted by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the Merger, in connection with presentations by the Company’s management or in any other forum or setting; or
(iii) the accuracy or completeness of any other representation, warranty, estimate, projection, prediction, data, financial information, memorandum, presentation or other materials or information.
ARTICLE IV
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE BUYER PARTIES
The Buyer Parties hereby represent and warrant to the Company as follows:
4.1 Organization; Good Standing.
(a) Parent. Parent (i) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing pursuant to the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; and (ii) has the requisite power and authority to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted and to own, lease or operate its properties and assets.
(b) Merger Sub. Merger Sub (i) is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing pursuant to the DGCL; and (ii) has the requisite corporate power and authority to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted and to own, lease or operate its properties and assets.
(c) Organizational Documents. Parent has made available to the Company true, correct and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other similar organizational documents of the Merger Sub, each as amended to date. No Buyer Party is in violation of its certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other similar organizational document.
4.2 Power; Enforceability. Each Buyer Party has the requisite power and authority to (a) execute and deliver this Agreement; (b) perform its covenants and obligations hereunder; and (c) consummate the Merger. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Buyer Parties, the performance by each Buyer Party of its respective covenants and obligations hereunder and the consummation of the Merger have been duly authorized, adopted and approved by all necessary action on the part of each Buyer Party and no additional actions on the part of any Buyer Party are necessary to authorize (i) the execution and delivery of this Agreement by each Buyer Party; (ii) the performance by each Buyer Party of its respective covenants and obligations
-45-
hereunder; or (iii) subject to the adoption of this Agreement by the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, the consummation of the Merger. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Buyer Party and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Buyer Party, enforceable against each Buyer Party in accordance with its terms, subject to the Enforceability Limitations.
4.3 Non-Contravention. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by each Buyer Party, the performance by each Buyer Party of its covenants and obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the Merger do not (a) violate or conflict with any provision of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other similar organizational documents of the Buyer Parties; (b) violate, conflict with, result in the breach of, constitute a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) pursuant to, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration pursuant to any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease, license, contract, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which any Buyer Party is a party or by which the Buyer Parties or any of their properties or assets may be bound; (c) assuming the consents, approvals and authorizations referred to in Section 4.4 have been obtained and, in the case of the consummation of the Merger, subject to obtaining the Written Consent and the adoption of this Agreement by the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, violate or conflict with any law or order applicable to the Buyer Parties or by which any of their properties or assets are bound; or (d) result in the creation of any lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon any of the properties or assets of the Buyer Parties, except in the case of each of clauses (b), (c) and (d) for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, terminations, accelerations or liens that would not, individually or in the aggregate, prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Merger or the ability of the Buyer Parties to fully perform their respective covenants and obligations pursuant to this Agreement.